!SLIDE center only-title

# Una BBDD de documentos es la “forma natural” de guardar datos en la mayoría de aplicaciones #

!SLIDE

# Documentos: Lo natural

http://blog.tonybain.com/tony_bain/2010/10/some-nosql-myths.html

<blockquote class="with-notes">
... Despite being commonly reported as “easy to install” or “easy to use” the
benefits of a document object model are much more significant. Why did we
spend so much time during the 90’s trying to build ORDBMS? Because the
<b>object-relational impedance mismatch is major and this translates into
significant development overhead. It is not uncommon to see 30-60% of all code
in some applications purely “plumbing” to deal with mapping data to and from
the RDBMS.</b> This is not something necessarily well understood by DBA’s or even
some long time database designers, something I will write a follow up post on. ...
</blockquote>

!SLIDE
# Algunas notas sobre BBDD de documentos (1) #

* *Why NoSQL is bad for startups*
  * Conclusiones un año después de migrar a CouchDB
  * http://labs.mudynamics.com/2010/04/01/why-nosql-is-bad-for-startups/


!SLIDE
# Algunas notas sobre BBDD de documentos (2) #

<blockquote class="with-notes">
... The joy of running an online community site is the debugging, thinking and solving locking and concurrency issues, outages and how best to scale the site as the traffic continues to increase. CouchDB has taken all that fun away. :-( Things just work, ...
</blockquote>

!SLIDE
# Algunas notas sobre BBDD de documentos (3) #

<blockquote class="with-notes">
<p><b>Lack of JOINs kills the brain</b></p>

<p>A recent Scientific American article shows that solving complex problems actually helps the brain. Solving normalization and data representation issues increases brain development and helps the engineers be very creative about solving these challenges.</p>

<p>The whole Map/Reduce thing ruins everything and puts the brain in sleep mode for the most time. What used to take hours and weeks now just takes a couple of minutes and most of our engineers are starting to not show up to work. They get everything done in a few hours and go home and the office looks like it’s haunted. Not good, not good at all.</p>
</blockquote>

!SLIDE

# MongoDB: ¿Listo para producción? #

* Pregunta obligada: ¿Realmente está preparado para producción?

!SLIDE

# MongoDB: No es ACID #

* No es ACID

!SLIDE
# MongoDB: Durability #

* MongoDB implementa *journaling* desde la 1.7.5
* http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/Journaling

!SLIDE
# MongoDB: Atomic / Isolation / Consistency #

* No hay transacciones
* Operaciones sobre documentos son atómicas
  * Modificar un objeto en la aplicación rara vez implica varias operaciones

!SLIDE

# MongoDB: ACID imprescindible #

* Si transacciones ACID son *realmente* necesarias

<br>

* Full-ACID
  * PostgreSQL (relacional)
  * CouchDB (documentos)
